# Book-Genre-Prediction
Programmed a Book Genre Predictor that can predict a book's genre when given features such as title, number of ratings, and author's name.

# Executive Summary
By utilizing the dataset from [Kaggle's TagMyBook](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/athu1105/tagmybook), I built a book genre predictor which predicts a book's genre based on some given features. I hypothesized that books within a genre would share similar characteristics with one another such as common words, ratings, reviews, etc. In order to test and validate this hypothesis, I utilized machine learning methods, specifically a decision tree classifier and a random forest classifier. The model was revealed to be relatively accurate when the given sample size was large. However, it's important to keep in mind that book genres are subjective to readers and this model may produce biased results based on its training dataset.

# 3. Introduction
It can be difficult to identify the genre of a book especially if it was not given beforehand. Websites like Amazon and GoodReads rely on the user reviews and their virtual bookshelves to determine the genre of a book. A virtual bookshelf is where users can create their own bookshelves based on their interpretation of the book's genre. From there, GoodReads finds patterns amongst virtual bookshelves and classifies a book. This can lead to genre classifications containing user biases. **This project aims to identify relationships between a book's features (e.g. ratings, number of followers, synopsis) and predict its genre.** I'll utilize a decision tree and random forest classifer to help me split the data into its respective classes. The model will learn the relationships between a book's features and identify what distinguishes a book genre from another.

# 6. Results
Through the random forest classifier, we can observe a 67% accuracy, which helps interpret that our model is relatively good at determining the genre of the book. The most accurately predicted genres are fantasy and thriller. This is possibly because these genres had the largest sample sizes, so the machine had more to train on and learn from. The least accurately predicted are horror and romance. This could occur due to misclassification. Since there is similarity in the most commonly appearing words between romance and fantasy (ex: "love"), romance books were highly misclassified as fantasy. Similarly, horror books were misclassified as thriller. On the other hand, genres like sports and travel had high accuracies, which is potentially due to the fact that their common words are more distinguishable compared to the others.
